---
layout: post-no-feature
title: "Walls"
description: "Can a little segregation do a little good?"
tags: [personal]

---

I like to start from "constellations" of ideas. So when I read two interesting articles about "concrete" I could not help but let them mix. 

A few months ago I read this fascinating and thought-provoking article about concrete - ["THE MOST EFFECTIVE WEAPON ON THE MODERN BATTLEFIELD IS CONCRETE"](http://mwi.usma.edu/effective-weapon-modern-battlefield-concrete/). 

In it, the writer discussed a surprisingly mundane weapon - the power of the simple six foot wall. 

>>Baghdad was strewn with concrete—barriers, walls, and guard towers. Each type was named for a state, denoting their relative sizes and weights. There were small barriers like the Jersey (three feet tall; two tons), medium ones like the Colorado (six feet tall; 3.5 tons) and Texas (six feet, eight inches tall; six tons) and large ones like the Alaska (twelve feet tall; seven tons). And there were T-walls (twelve feet tall; six tons), and actual structures such as bunkers (six feet tall; eight tons) and guard towers (fifteen to twenty-eight feet tall).

The concept was that they wanted to make sure that potential suicide bombers would not be able to get to places where they can do major damage. It is sort of funny that in this world with artificial intelligence and drones, the most heavily used tool turned out to be a simple piece of material. 

It "constellated" (not a word) with another great article that I read a few months before about Belfast's "peace walls" - ["The Complex Process of Demolishing Belfast's 'Peace Walls'"](http://www.citylab.com/politics/2016/08/belfast-peace-walls-demolition/496070/?utm_source=feed)

If you do not know much about Peace Walls, they were from a turbulent time in Northern Ireland's history called the Troubles. I like this explanation here: 

>> They aren’t grand Berlin Wall-style ramparts bisecting the city. Rather they are small barriers that mark frontiers between the city’s Protestant and Catholic communities, but which are nonetheless permeable. Some have gates that now open by day, while it’s possible to get round all of them if you take a detour. The purpose they served in the past was to remove sites for potential tension and street battles. By making it harder for neighbors to fight neighbors, they let both sides of the sectarian divide make it through troubled times with a degree of reduced tension.

I read a piece (in of all places a reading comprehension test) a few years ago that discussed why the Amazon forest showed so much diversity - with dozens of species within a single square mile patch - while the Congo river basin (one of the largest forests in the world) showed so little. The article muses (as tested by the questions on the article, haha) that this is because the Amazon featured natural geographic boundaries between the species - allowing them the peace for their quirks to flourish and speciate. 

In this Trumpian era, the "Wall" between the US and Mexico has turned into sort of a joke. And coming off the LBJ read, segregation between the races had been cast as a prominent evil. Integration of the races the author implied was a great cause worthy of much effort and pursuit. 

But after reading these articles, I started to wonder if maybe a little bit of segregation might be okay. Perhaps in locations where identities of race and religion would be judged to be greater than that of the national peace - like Iraqi Baghdad or Troubled Belfast. There, the fact that people knew that they "belonged" to 1 country - Iraq or Northern Ireland - did not matter. When they fought each other, they do not see themselves as fighting themselves. They saw themselves as fighting the "other". 

Breaking down the walls in those cases might do more harm than good. 